###ES6

Javascript created so that could do some calculations in frontend.
Prototype developed by Brandon Eich in 10 days.

Javascript has no relationship to Java. Java is to Javascript what ham is to hamsters.

Javascript run on chrome may run differently when run on Firefox. Way it is understood by whatever is compiling it may change how the code is run.

Node.js is also built of V8 which is also what Chrome uses.

##New features
#For of and for in
For...in iterates for arrays and objects.
For...of iterates over arrays [cannot be used in objects]


#let & const
var will exist outside the local scope. Let and const will stay within the scope it was defined in.
Use const if value of variable shouldn't change. Can modify the data within it.
Var exists within a function scope and let/const exist within a block. Let & const are not hoisted even within a block.

#String literals
`${value you want here} whatever is in your string`
String literals take into account newlines.

#Arrow functions
e.g. const double = arg1 => {
  return arg1 * 2
}

const twoPlusTwo = () => 2 + 2 //don't put braces if you want it to automatically return

When using this need to use function() declaration as arrow function will refer this to the global scope
const player = {
  score: 10,
  addScore: function(nb) {
    this.score += nb
  }
}
not

const player = {
  score: 10,
  addScore: => nb {
    this.score += nb //this is now looking for this in the global scope where it doesn't exist.
  }
}

#Object destructuring
const anObj = {a:1, b:2, c:3}

const a = anObj.a
const b = anObj.b
const c = anObj.c

or with E6:
const { a, b, c } = anObj // 1, 2, 3

#Array destructuring
const anArray = [1, 2, 3]

const a = anArray[0]
const b = anArray[1]
const c = anArray[2]

or with E6
const [a,b,c] = [1, 2, 3] //order does matter. If wrote const [c, a, b] = [1, 2, 3] then console log(a, b, c) will write 2, 3, 1

#Rest and Spread
Used to join to arrays with concat.
But can also use spread
const countries = [array of countries]
const otherCountries = [array with some more countries]
const allCountries = [...countries, ...otherCountries]

const numbers = [11, 14, 16]
const sumOfThree(...numbers)

When you have an unknown number or arguments use Rest operator
Anything else that comes into this method, I will take it.

const multiplySum = (multiple, ...numbers) =>
  multiple * numbers.reduce((sum, next) => sum + next)

First parameter is stored into multiple and all the rest is stored into numbers.