13 Mar 2019 Wednesday

##Request
Client server communication is one way. The client always initiates the request. The server is only there to answer the request. Server parses the request and sends back resonse, headers + body and status code. Verb goes with the request not with the response. Server sends back what has been asked. Request will issue a verb GET POST PUSH DELETE (read create update delete).

Route = endpoint. Endpoint = METHOD + PATH. On server define the end points. The goal is to catch the request. It needs both the method and path to match for it to issue a response.

Res.render will render an HTML page. Res.redirect will redirect you to another page.

##Why Express
EJS is a mix of HTML and Javascript. When parsed it's going to be returned as full HTML.

Express is a web framework for NodeJS - when doing lots of apps then having a framework means less manual things. Makes you faster and help you out with some bugs. Frameworks are opinions. Express has a lot of flexibility (compared to Rails).

Express provides you with
- Routing
- Layered on top of node HTTP server, provides a degree of abstraction.
- Middleware
- Template engine (ejs)

##Resources
Creating a quotes app. Need to identify the resources.
- Quotes
- Comments

If shopping app then resources
- Cart
- User
etc..

Resources going to be identified by the URL. Resource name is part of the url. e.g. localhost:3002/quotes

##CRUD operations
For each resource we want to
- create => creating a new resource
- read => getting a resource
- update => changing a resource
- delete => deleting a resource

##REST
Representation State Transfer
REST is a pattern, a convention to organize our url structure
- It should use http verbs to express what the request wants to accomplish
- Resource information must be part of the url
- It uses common data formats (JSON for API)
- Communication is stateless
    Server cannot remember you based on just the request. Request is a new request each time. Server doesn't maintain information about who you are. That's why need login information. Login information uses cookies.
- Each request must pass all information needed to fulfill the request

#http methods
Post, Get, Put Delete

Scoping information
- collections versus single entity
GET a collection of information. POST is a single one.

#End points
By following REST principles it allows us to design our end points

Action                                http verb                      end point
List all quotes                       GET                            get '/quotes'
Get a specific quote                  GET                            get '/quotes/:id'
Display a new form                    GET                            get '/quotes/new'
Create a new quote                    POST                           post '/quotes'
Display the form for updating a quote GET                            get '/quotes/:id/update'
Update the quotes                     PUT                            put '/quotes/:id'
Deleting a specific quote             DELETE                          delete '/quotes/:id'

#Nested Resources
You may need to access a nested resource. For example, you need to create a new comment.

Action                                http verb                      end point
Create a new comment                  Post                           post '/quotes/:id/comments'

#Demo

Difference between app.set and app.use. Usually app.use is for middleware.

<!-- //specifying ejs as the template engine -->
app.set('view engine', 'ejs')

<!-- //serve static resources under public folder -->
app.use(express.static('public'));

<!-- //movie quotes database - in memory db. What kind of structure am I working with: Object of objects. -->
const = {blah blah}

<!-- //comments db -->

Then look at REST pattern. Start with getting list of all the quotes

<!-- //get the list of all the quotes -->
#In Index file:
app.get('/quotes', (req, res) => {
  const templateVars = {quotes: Object.values(movieQuotesDb)} <!-- // Object.values makes an array of objects -->

  res.render('quote_list', templateVars)
})

//create new file calle quote_list.ejs. Variable that can access in the view page is the name of the keys in your templateVars, e.g. quotes. "templateVars" is the object that's being passed. View cannot see anything else. Data structure of quotes is an array of objects.

#In EJS file:

<% for (const quoteObj of quotes) { %>
  <li><%= quoteObj.quote %></li>
<% } %>

Install nodemon so don't have to restart the server each time.
- rs restart server
Can console log in the index. movieQuotesDb: JSON.stringify(movieQuotesDb)

#Now want to also pass the list of comments
<!-- //Add new variable that will add a list of comments to each quote and return the new array. -->
const quoteList = () => {
  <!-- //getting the array of quotes from movieQuotesDb -->
  const quotesArr = Object.values(movieQuotesDb);

  <!-- //getting an array of all the comment objects -->
  const commentsArr = Object.values(quoteComments);
  <!-- //adding the comments to each quote object. Map applies a transformation on each one. Want to add a new property which adds a new value to the object which is the comment. This will give a new array with objects which contains the comment object. -->
  const quoteCommentArr = quotesArr.map(quoteObj => {
  quoteObj.comments = commentsArr.filter(
      commentObj => commentObj.quoteId === quoteObj.id
    )
    return quoteObj;
})

  return quoteCommentArr;
}

<!-- Then want to update the get method  -->
app.get('/quotes', (req, res) => {
  const templateVars = {quotes: quotelist()} <!-- // Now call the function Quotelist -->

  res.render('quote_list', templateVars)
})

#In EJS file
<% for (const quoteObj of quotes) { %>
  <li><%= quoteObj.quote %></li>
    <ol>
      <% for (const commentObj of comments) { %>
        <li>
          <%= commentObj.comment %>
        </li>
      <% } %>
    </ol>
    }
<% } %>

#Add new quote

<!-- form -->
app.get('/quotes/new', (req, res) => {
  res.render('quotes_new'); <!-- don't need to pass any templatevar to form-->
})

<!-- Creating a post in the movies QuoteDB -->
app.post('/quotes/', (req, res) => {
  <!-- extracting the quote from the form -->
  const quote = req.body.quote;
  <!-- es6 equivalent const {quote} = req.body. Only quote will work because it exists in DB -->
  <!-- calling addQUote to add the quote to movieQUotesdb -->
  addQuote(quote);

  <!-- redirect to quotes list -->
  res.redirect('/quotes');
}
<!-- Need to install body parser as dependency in your server and add it as a require to your index. Use use as body-parser is a middleware. Body parser extracts information from forms -->

#In form EJS
<form method="POST" action="/quotes">
    <input type="text" name="quote" id="quote"> <!-- id is only important for CSS -->
    <input type="submit" value="Add Quote">
</form>

#Add Addquote() function
const addQuote = (quote) => {
  const id = uuidv4();

  const newQuote = {
    id: id,
    quote: quote
  }

  moviesQuotesDb[id] = newQuote;
}

<!-- Can use package to create new id. npm install uuid. Add to require at top of page -->

<!-- When submit form will see key on server which will be the name of the input. Content of the name attribute in form becomes the key in req.body. If name is not there then will get an empty req.body -->

<!-- //should use Object.keys in my socialNetwork problem.
//EJS Snippets need to find one for Sublime.
//If you see Object object in your page you know you're passing an Object that page cannot render.

//if const movieQuotesDb was an array. Then would use movieQuotesDb.map(quoteObj => Object.values(quoteObj))
 -->

