#Lecture 14 March 2019

##User Authentication with Express

##Stateless
Benefits of HTTP being stateless.
- Scalability - no session related dependency
- Less complex
- Easier to cashe
- Server cannot track of information

Disadvantages
- You have to provide the context

##Cookies is the solution
Cookie is a small text file that is stored by a browser on the user's machine. It is a set of key value pairs.
E.g. `name=Linguini; style=classy;`
Separated by semi colons.

The response header will ask to set th ecookie. The browser will store the cookie. The browser will send the cookie in each request.

Client = Browser -------------------------> server
Headers + Body
                 <-------------------------
                                          Headers + body
                        login.html

Browser doesn't do anything by itself. It doesn't hold any pages. It always has to ask for pages from the server.

Send short URL, long URL is sent back. Redirects to the long URL. Goes to the server that holds the long URL and requests that server for that page.

Login form request body holds the email and password. Response from server is to set cookie, as part of the header of the response.
Server checks the email and password to see if it matches a user and gets the userID. It puts the UserID as the cookie. Body contains a redirect.

To extract information from request. Want to read from cookies. req.cookies("userid"). If find that userID and extract userID, then it's going to tell me userID3.

On every request that you need to be identified, that cookie needs to be sent along.

##Moviequotes
Need to create a register endpoint in server.

###In index.js
app.get('/register', (req, res) => {
  res.render('register');
});

Order of endpoints is important.  E.g. if you have /quotes/:id/ above /quotes/new. Then it will try to go to quotes/:new. And you'll get  a big fat error.

###Set cookie

app.post('/register', (req, res) => {
  <!-- //extract information from the form -->
  const name = req.body.name;
  const email = req.body.email;
  const password = req.body.password;
  <!-- Es6 method //const { name, email, password } = req.body; -->

  <!-- create a new user. Create a function outside of app.post. Added below. Call function. Return value will be userID -->
  const userID = createUser(name, email, password)
  <!-- //Set the cookie with the user_id -->
  res.cookie('user_id', userId);
  <!-- //res.redirect -->
  res.redirect('/quotes');
})

  <!-- //create a new user and add it to the database. Return user id and set it in the cookies -->
const createUser = (name, email, password) => {
  <!-- generate a userID. Check userdb and see how many items in it -->
  const user_id = Object.key(usersDb).length + 1;
  <!-- Create a new user object -->
  const newUser = {
    id: user_id.toString()
    name: name,
    email: email,
    password: password
}
  <!-- Add user object to users Db -->
<!-- When adding a variable to an object you need to use [].  -->
  userDb[userId] = newUser;

  <!-- Return user id because this is what want to set in cookies-->
  return userID;
}

Need to install cookie.parser.
const cookieParser = require('cookie-parser');
app.use(cookieparser)

###Change layout depending on whether logged in or not
need to pass the data of the user to the view.

app.get('/quotes', (req, res) => {
  const quotes = quotelist();
  <!-- getting the userID from the cookies. Can be user ID or undefined -->
  const userID = req.cookies['user_id'];
<!-- this gets users object from users DB
Can also be undefined -->

  const currentUser = usersDB[userId];

  const templateVars = { quotes, username: currentUser ? currentUser.name : null  };
  <!-- terenary to see if currentUser -->

  res.render('quotes', templateVars)
})

<!-- On register page good chance user is not logged in, so you can pass username: null. Need to pass something because the header requires the username. -->

###In the head ejs
<div>
  <% if (username) {
  <div class="welcome-msg">
    <p>Welcome, <%= username %> </p>
    <form>...</form>
    <% } else { %>
    <form></form>
  }
}

###Security risk
People can change the cookie and then be logged in as someone else. Need to encrypt the cookies.
Need new package cookie-session. Install cookie-session.
npm i --save cookie-session

const cookieSession = require('cookie-session')
app.use(
  cookieSession({
    name: 'session',
    keys: [''], <!-- generated a key using uuid -->
  })

<!-- Change the cookie parsers to cookie sessions where they are being set -->
  req.session.user_id = userId;

<!-- change where cookies read -->
  <!-- const userId = req.cookies['user_id']; -->
  <!-- ->  -->
  const userId = req.session_user_id;

##Login
app.get('/login', (req, res) => {
  const templateVars = {username: null }
  res.render('login', templateVars )
})

app.post('/login' (req, res) => {
  <!-- //extract .login info from the form -->

  <!-- //Authenticate the user -->

  <!-- //Crete a function authenticate that will reutrn false or the user id -->
  <!-- //Checks if a user with that email and password exists in usersDb. If not then return false -->

  <!-- //If userid is truthy, set the cookie and redirect -->

  <!-- //If userid is falsey, send error message -->
})

##Security risk two
Password is being stored in plain. Need to store with hash using BCrypt

##What we did
- We created a register route
  GET
    - Display the register form

  POST
    - Extracted user info from the form with req.body
    - create a user in the database with that info
    - set the user id in the cookies
    - redirect to another page

- Pass the username in templateVar
    - For each ejs that are using the variable called username
    - The username must be passed in the templateVars of all the end points

