#25 March 2019 (Monday)

#Databases
More companies are getting full stack developers rather than front end and back end developers

1st tier
Client

2nd tier
Application

3rd tier
Database

##Types of databases
- Relational databases
    Intended for analysts, but computer scientists got hold of it. Paradox SQL is making a come back for data analytics.
    We are going to use Postgresql
    Mostly used in established industries - banking, finance, inventory, insurance.
    MySQL powers wordpress
- Key value stores
    Redis
- Column stores
    Cassandran
    Hbase
- Graph database
- Document databases (JSON like format)
    MongoDb
- Real-time database
    Firebase


##Data modelling
The way we store data can have huge impact on storage and performance. Need to use guidelines to store data. MongoDb does not care if you do data modelling. Relational db requires data to be organised.
Start with a modelling phase so that can avoid data duplication and inconsistencies.

Group what belongs together into their own tables.
Give each table unique ids
Then establish relationships
If table has multiple relationships with another table, may need to make another table that records the relationships.

Cardinality of these relationships -
Employees to positions has a many to many relationship.
When have many to many relationship we make another table which creates a one to many relationship
Employees (1)--------------(Many) Employees-Position (Many)-----------------(1) Position

###Entity Relationship Diagram
Each table is an entity.
Using crowfeet notation in bootcamp.

SQL has 2 parts
- Data Definition Language (DDL)
  Create tables or modify the structure of database
- Data Manipulation Language (DML)
  Manipulate the data in the database

moviedb_ddl.sql
Start with the tables that have a one-sided relationship. Serial Primary Key not null means will automatically assign incremental ids.

CREATE TABLE directors (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL,
  first_name VARCHAR(50),
  last_name VARCHAR(50),
);

In vagrant machine can go into psql shell by typing psql.
\l = list
\c = connect, e.g. \c movies
\d = what tables have in database
SELECT * from actors;
createdb [name of database]
dropdb [name of database]
psql movies < moviedb_ddl.sql = inserts table into database
\ [name of table] = shows structure of table

Use snake case for multiple words e.g. country_code

Foreign key stores the id of the associated table. E.g. movie has foreign key to store director, director_id

##DML
INSERT INTO directors (first_name, last_name) VALUES ('');

DELETE FROM directors;
ALTER SEQUENCE directors_id_seq RESTART WITH 1;
Need to do this to restart the ids from 1 when deleting and reinserting data into a table.

Mostly fill the one-sided tables first, because need them as foreign keys later on.

SELECT filters columns, WHERE filters the rows

##Joins
Pick the onesided as the primary key. As there will be no foreign key in the onesided table.
SELECT *
FROM movies
INNER JOIN directors
ON directors.id = movies.director_id;

You don't have to specify the table name as long as the column name is unique.

SELECT  *
FROM actors
LEFT OUTER JOIN actor_movies
ON actors.id = actor_movies.actor_id
LEFT OUTER JOIN movies
ON movies.id = actor_movies.movie_id

SELECT genres.description, count(movie_genres.movie_id)
FROM genres
INNER JOIN movie_genres
ON genres.id - movie_genres.genre_id
GROUP BY genres.description;