#27 March 2019

#Midterm Project Kickoff
Think about what want to learn

##Planning
1) Define problem app solves - this is kind of done in the options

2) User stories
    Title "User should..."
    As a user... Role
    I want to... Goal
    Because... Benefit

    Title: Users should see a list of the available maps
    As a user, I want to see all the available maps because I want to quickly select a map that matches my interests.

    A framework for modern User Stories

    Start with list of requirements.

3) Features
    What is the list of features?
    MVP - Minimum Viable Product - What is the minimum set of features to have a working product. Requirements = minimum viable product, some may be considered stretch - use your judgement. Deployment to Heroku would be stretch.
    Make sure you understand your project and solving the right problems.

4) User authentication
    Just one route. A get app.get('/login/id') - set the cookie automatically.

5) Wireframes
    Sketch a wireframe for every pae you plan to build
    Very low-res version. Box version.
    Will drive development. Layout that agreeing on.

6) Data
    Define what data going to need to get this app built.
    ERD
    Tables are nouns, they can be taken right from User Stories.
    What are the relationships?
    Use a design software (draw.io) - best for sharing
    Follow conventions:
        Table names are plural
        Primary key is `id`
        Foreign key is `tablename_id`

7) Routes
    Follow REST

8) Stack Choices - already decided
    Frontend: Bootstrap, Sass, JQuery
    Backend: Node.js, Express
    Database: PostgreSQL

    API cannot give you front end - just data

9) Dividing tasks
    Think about what want to learn.
    Some options:
    Vertical
      Break the project out into features
      Prioritize the features
      Each developer would build a feature full stack

    Horizontal
      Break the project into technical domains
      One or more developers will be responsible for an entire domain
      Domains could be ui, api (routes), db

    In beginning might need to do pair programming until decide how to split up tasks.

    Don't wait too much before integrating features. E.g. front end needs data from back-end.

10) Communication
    Talk to team member if not sure where you're at. Talk more.
    Trello

11) Project workflow
    Work on SASS folder. When compile it will update the CSS file.
    Do not create tables in psql. Do it with migrations
    Use faker if need fake data

    Git workflow
      Agree on a git workflow
      Follow the same sorkflow
      Never code on Master
      Do a feature branch, e.g. "feature - fixing bugs"
      Git pull (all latest chlanges from master)
      Git merge <branch>

12) List of tools - gist on DomicTremblay
