19 March 2019 Tuesday

##The DOM (Document Object Model)
HTML document is parsed by rendering engine in the browser. All tags converted into tokens, converted into nodes, converted into DOM. Tree structure.

When access DOM using Javascript access each node in the tree structure.

Document is global object provided to you by the browser. The browser also has browser object model.

[In console] Can get geolocation, window.height, window.innerWidth, document - gives you access to the elements.

##DOM traversal

document.getElementByID('todo-list') Gives you access to element.

document.querySelector('li')
Just returns first.

document.querySelectorAll('li')
class
document.querySelectorAll('.form-group')

document.getElementsByClassName('list-group-item')

document.getElementByTagName('form')

document.getElementByName('tweeter')

document.all - returns an HTML collection of all the elements on the page.

const firstLi = document.querySelector('li')
const secondLi = firstLi.nextElementSibling

const parentElement = firstLi.parentElement

parentElement.children - all the children of the parent.

firstLi.style - all the CSS on this style

firstLi.style.color = 'blue';
firstLI.style.bacgroundColor - note use of camelCase instead of hyphen.

firstLi.className = 'active'


can also do via javascript
<script src="./scripts/todos.js"></script> - put it right before end of body tag, so html tags are there when trying to manipulate them.

JQuery is a javascript library on top of javascript.

##Monitoring events
monitorEvents(document.body, "keyup") - every time press key there is an event. In javascript can listen for those events.

const submitBtn = document.getElementByID('add-todo')
listen for any keyup event in that box

submitBtn.addEventListener('keyup', function(event) {
  console.log("Pressed a key")
})

##Add a new todo in my list
Parent of input - form element id "add-todo-frm"

const frmEl = document.getElementById('add-todo-frm');

<!-- Add e -->
frmEl.addEventListener('submit', function(event) {
  <!-- console.log(event.target)  -->
  event.preventDefault();
  const todoContent = event.target.elements.addtodo.value

  const newToDoEl = createTodo(todoContent);

  const parentUl = document.getElementById('todo-list')

  parentUl.appendChild(newToDoEl)
})

We don't want the browser to submit the request because we want to do our own thing. To prevent this we will use a function called preventDefault (see above)

We want to extract the information typed in the input box. name "addtodo". So console.log the event.target.elements.addtodo.value

We want to create a new todo by taking the value from the listener and assigning it to a variable.

const createTodo = content => {
  <!-- create a new li element -->
  const liEl = document.createElement('li')

  <!-- Set the class on the li -->
  liEl.className = 'list-group-item';

  <!-- Set text value for this li -->
  liEl.innerText = ` ${content};

  <!-- create a new checkbox element -->
  const checkEl = document.createElement('input');
  checkEl.setAttribute('type', 'checkbox');
  checkEl.setAttribute('name', content.split(' ').join());
  checkEl.id = content.split(' ').join('-');

  <!-- Add checkbox element to the li -->
  liEl.insertBefore(checkEl, liEl.firstChild)

  <!-- Return the li element -->
  return liEl;
}


##Cross out done todo
Want a listener on the click event on checkboxes


const checkboxes = document.getElementsByClassName('list-group-item');

for (const li of checkboxes) {
  li.firstElementChild.addEventListener('click', function(event) {
    let textNode = event.target.nextSibling;
    textNode.style.textDecoration = 'line-through'
  })
}


<!-- You can't add an event listener on all of them at same time

-->

#Breakout
JQuery is a library.
$ is equivalent of writing Jquery.

React has a lot of the functionality that Jquery has, so don't need to use it.

But learning JQuery helps us learn how to target elements. Add handlers. More toolage.

20Mil websites use JQuery.

