#22 March 2019 (Friday)

#CSS
Block will take the entire size of the page. Block elements - divs, sections.
Inline elements - images, span (usually used for text with special properties), em (by default italics but can style how want), cannot specify height, width, margin
Inline block elements - if want image to be part of a block, rather than before or after.

Codepen - testing HTML/CSS/Layouts etc.. shows you the page immediately.
Baconipsum - Lorem Ipsum with more bacon
Placecage - placeholder images with Nicolas Cage. img src="https://placecage.com/300/200" width/height
FillMurray.com


margin: 20px 50px; width height
display: block - break text


margin on an em tag will only apply left and right, because it is inline, but if specify display: in-line block then will make it like a block element.

h1, ul{ //putting two next to each other with comma will apply the formatting to both
  display: inline-block
}

positioning menu to right of screen
ul{
  position: relative;
  left: 50px
}
will move from the left 50px.
but will not be right on big screens or little screens.

##Media Queries
Can set screen width when being viewed on small screen

@media screen and (max-width: 900px){
  <!-- //element want to target with this condition -->
  div{
    width:400px;
  }
}
This will apply as soon as the width is not 900px.

medium printing or screen
e.g. when media print background is white
There are typical breakpoints - see them in dev tools

Max width, min width, deterine what is supported.

Orientation - portrait and landscape

Using percentages rather than pixels. Always based on parent. If child is set at 50% and parent is set at 50% then child will be 25% of screen.
Specify max-width so that if screens are big then don't stretch images past their compatible.

height: 100vh; - taking 100% of viewport. Viewport is where we view the content.
Can specify vh so that can see that there is other content.
width: 20vw;
height: 20vw;
If used vh then if decrease the width of screen it won't decrease size of box as view height is much bigger than view width.
Usually use for structural elements, not child, because it will explode out of the parent element if the vw/vh is bigger than the parent.

width: 40vmin;
height: 40vmin;

Only responsive under a certain size as width is smaller than height, so will calculate on the minimum. Vmax will take the bigger size.

Best to set your own base size

body{
  font-size: 25px;
}

h1{
  font-size: 2em;
}

h2{
  font-size: 1.5em;
}

h3{
  font-size:
}

@media screen and (max-width:500px){
  body{
    font-size: 16px;
  }
}

or 12vw;
EM will always take the first px statement as being what it is relative to. Rem will take root - so always body.


##Flex box
Aligning elements inside a bigger one. Important to know there is always a main axis and cross axis and then direction. Flex will make all the elements in-line (overriding whether they're blocks). By default direction is row, left to right.
On main axis use justify-content to control elements.
If specify flex direction: column then main element will be vertical top to bottom. Then justify content will be controling top to bottom.
Mostly supported for all browsers (not IE of course)

##Box Model
Div is by default 100%
Border, padding is on top of the size. So if 100% then will have to scroll. Browser will consider the size of the box as the size of the content. All the extras is in top of size.
Can use width: calc(100% - 70px)
can tell the browser to use all the elements for the size
box-sizing: border-box; //Will calculate evertyhing up to the border.
This means have less space for the content in side.

##SASS
Preprocessor - will process CSS for us.

$primary-color: #C0FFEE;

h1 {
  color: $primary-color;
}

Specify standard image size, margins, etc and then apply to elements.
SCSS - still uses braces and semi-colons. SASS doesn't.

SASS can compile nested css.