#8 April 2019 Monday

#ReactJS

##AJAX
With AJAX it was possible to do request and exchange only data. No need to send back the HTML page. So no page reload was necessary.

##SPA
This opened the door for single page apps.

Classic model you would have a views folder, each view would represent a page. Client would send request to get a page. The server would render the javascript and send back a full HTML page. Each time it would send back a full page. Whether you need full page or not.

With SPA we send request get / Server sends back one page. Probably the index.html. There is no javascript code within this page. It's the bare bones structure of this index. Build most of the UI client side. Client might have link to app.js that is going to run script on client side. E.g. a list of users. Ask the server for a list of users get /users. Instead of sending back HTML it may send back a JSON with the list of users. Array of objects of all the users. Use javascript to loop over the array of users and dynamically add to the page.

JQuery became popular to use with AJax as it allowed you to easily render the data.

An app that is as complex as Facebook it will be difficult to use JQuery, because need to update the DOM constantly. Becomes very hard to maintain with JQuery. For instance if add a <li> hard to know the impact on the rest of the page.

JQuery is a library not a framework. You have choice to use it or not, you can use it in any way you like. It's not opinionated. Library you're still in control, you decide how to implement it.

A framework like React provides a set of tools that will make your life easier (routing, session management, templates). E.g. express is for designing web apps. Allow you to develop much faster. It comes with a set of opinions. You have to abide by set of principles.
3 main frameworks: React, Vue, Angular. React and Angular are very popular in businesses. React is over taking Angular.

Framework will give you a pattern to follow. E.g. MVC Model View Controller. Model = data. View = UI. Controller = dispatcher that is going to say ok Model give me data and I'm going to send it to the View. This model is for the backend. It's the model of Ruby on Rails. On frontend it is View. View Model. Model. Framework will typically give you tools to do all these components. More consistent code so less buggy.

##ReactJS
Javascript Library to create complex UI. It's only the view part of a framework. To handle the rest it's going to use other technologies.

###Opinions of ReactJS
- React is declarative (versus imperative)

  Imperative. Describe all the steps that need to be done
    const doubleNb = list => {
      const outputArr = [];

      for (const nb of list) {
        outputArr.push(nb*2);
      }
      return outputArr;
    };

  Declarative
    const inputArr = [4,8,9];
    console.log("Map:", inputArr.map(nb => nb * 2));

    console.log("Imperative:", doubleNb([4,8,9]))

  Focus on the what not the how.

  Being declarative is a functional developing paradigm.

  - Limit the mutations (it doesn't modify the original array)
  - limit the side effects
  - more readable

- Components are the building blocks of React.
  - All the UI is divided into components
  - Complex UIs are going to be built by composing components.

- Explicit mutations

  setState();
  State is like an in-memory database. All views are dependent on the state. Populate the state from the database. Still need to send it to database if it's a permanent change.

- Render
  Every component has a render method. Provides a mechanism for doing all the updates of the DOM in an efficient manner by providing a Virtual DOM - an in memory copy of the real DOM. Each time there is a change it does the change on the virtual DOM. When it's time to render the changes then it will calculate the minimum mutations on real DOM (optimize number of mutations on the DOM).

- Data flow in React is unidirectional.
  - Parent child relationship and data flows from the parent to the child, but cannot do the reverse.
  This makes things more predictable.


In React project need something that compiles all the parts and puts them in a single file, like webpack. And Babbel is a transpiler. It takes one language and turns it into another. So you can write in javascript and it will transpile it into React.

Websocket allows multiple clients to connect to the server. So everyone sees the messages of everyone.

React also has a native app version.


###Create element
const character = [
  { name: "Garfield" },
  { name: "Snoopy" },
  { name: "SpongeBob" },
];
<!-- This will become state -->

const reactElement = React.createElement("div", null,
  React.createElement(
    "h1",
    { className: "title" },
    "My Favorite Characters"
    ),

  React.createElement("ul", null,
    React.createElement("li", null, characters[0].name),
    React.createElement("li", null, characters[1].name),
    React.createElement("li", null, characters[2].name),
  )
);

{} is any styles you want to apply. className as it's still javascript. When rendered it gets changed to CSS class.

ReactDOM. render(reactElement, document.getElementById('react-root'));

As React is built of components we shouldn't have logic in our Index. We should move this to App.js. and render <App />, document.getElementById..

App.js
import React, {Component} from 'react';

class App extends Component {

  constructor(props) {

  <!-- Have to call this to initialize the component -->
    super(props);

<!-- Only time you can set the state directly -->
    this.state = {
      characters: [
        { name: "Garfield" },
        { name: "Snoopy" },
        { name: "SpongeBob" },
      ];
  <!-- could put other value pairs in here. E.g. currentCharacter: 'Garfield' -->
    }
  }

  render() {
  const reactElement = React.createElement("div", null,
      React.createElement(
        "h1",
        { className: "title" },
        "My Favorite Characters"
        ),

      React.createElement("ul", null,
  <!-- Can accept individual values or an array  -->
        [
          React.createElement("li", null, this.state.characters[0].name),
          React.createElement("li", null, this.state.characters[1].name),
          React.createElement("li", null, this.state.characters[2].name),
        ]
      )
    );
    return reactElement
  }
}

export default App;


Instead of hardcoding the array. Can create an array of react elements.

  const characterList = this.state.characters.map(characterObj =>
    React.createElement("li", { key: characterObj.name }, characterObj.name),
  )

Use map when want to loop through array and transform them. E.g. transform them into a React Element

Can replace array...


      React.createElement("ul", null, characterList)
  <!-- Can accept individual values or an array  -->
    );

    return reactElement;

If gets more complicated than this you will have React.createElements everywhere.
Translate this into JSX.

##JSX is a HTML like language
  const characterList = this.state.characters.map(characterObj =>
    <li key={characterObj.name}>{characterObj.name}</li>
  ));

  {means we're inside some JSX code that needs to be evaluated. Like <% in EJS}

   return
    <div>
      <h1 className='title'>My Favorite Characters</h1>
      <ul>
        {characterList}
      </ul>
  }

To transform HTML into JSX need to follow certain rules. E.g. all input tags must be self-closing

Can componentize this further

##Componentify
class Character extends Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props)
  }

  render() {
    return <li>{this.props.name}</li>
  }

}
export default Character;

--

In App change it to Character. And need to import Character.

const characterList = this.state.characters.map(characterObj =>
  <Character key={characterObj.name} name={characterObj.name}
));

now passing to child components through props.